SAFE SPACE
Cynthia Tee: A safe space is where you feel
like you can do something or say something
and not be harmed as a result.
Marci Owens: And when you know that you're
not going to be attacked for thinking a certain way,
you are more open to let your ideas out
and kind of tell how you're really feeling.
We can kind of be real about things.
Lucas Nydam: The most real conversations I've
had about race, or any, or gender, anything,
have happened in safe spaces. Like people
are like, “Oh you're coddling, you're not
talking about these things.” It's like no,
safe spaces allow people to talk about those things,
when you set these ground rules to
try to make people comfortable.
Rachael DeCruz: And by comfortable I mean
that I'm not fearing being discriminated against,
harassed, bullied, that I just feel like I
can speak my mind and I'm not going to be
judged in any way for it.
Sean RIley: It isn't absent of constructive
tension or conflict.
Tariqa Waters: That's the safe space for me,
I think you know, just to be able to express
what it is that I'm saying, and if I stumble,
or if I said something that's out of turn
or inappropriate, that you just check me on.
Jerrell Davis: Thinking about safe spaces,
I would define them as places of comfort where
there are like-minded people.
Duck Bae: As I understand it's like a ban
on saying anything hateful?
Varisha Khan: Safe spaces are environments
where people who do face racism, prejudice
of any sort, can truly feel comfortable and
feel safe that they will not face racism,
prejudice, hatred, discrimination, microaggressions.
Keli Carender: It sounds like, from their
own words, that they're asking for a place
where certain ideas and opinions and words
and phrases cannot be uttered or thought.
And I think that if you only feel safe when
you're around people who think exactly like you,
then there is something very, very wrong.
Autumn Bennett: That's what I kind of thought
the safe space was, was where it's only kind
of one point of view is allowed here. But
if you meant like a safe space where everyone can disagree,
my response would be, well isn't
that kind of everywhere?
Keli: From reading quotes and interviews with
people who support these things, it seems like
it's a place where a certain opinion
and a certain thought is the only one that's okay.
Because otherwise you're going to traumatize
people.
And that's very, seems very authoritarian to me.
Louis Chude-Sokei: There are people who say
that safe spaces stifle free speech.
But that argument tends to not realize that speech can only be free
when everyone involved in the conversation feels equally empowered.
Duck: People thinking about what they're saying,
and whether or not they should be saying it,
and being more conscious of their actions.
Rachael: We are living in a, in a white-dominated
society. And so people who fall outside that
norm need to have spaces to go to have conversations
with people who understand their experiences
and who aren't trying to minimize the pain
or the trauma that they're feeling.
Leija Farr: So a safe space is like somewhere
you that you're going and finding similarities
with people when you feel like society is
like working against you.
Tariqa: You know, we've always had to do things
in secret to survive, through slavery with
quilting and just, you know, just in how we
communicated with one another.
Louis: Although in my really sardonic moments,
I can make fun of people for being too thin-skinned
and kind of you know namby-pamby. But I know
what it was like to be a student, and I know
what it's like to be a minority in a largely
white environment, where people around you
aren't at all aware of the tension that they
generate towards you.
Lucas: When you go into your typical university
classroom as like a white man, you're already
in your safe space. That space was made for you to be safe, like it was made with you in mind.
So when other people, people of other
backgrounds go into it,
the space wasn't necessarily made for them
Jerrell: We grow out of discomfort, and so
if we're always trying to be in a safe space,
we ain't never gonna grow, you know. If we're
always around people that are likeminded and
have the same thoughts as us, we’ll never
hear something that will challenge us
or challenge our way of thinking.
Keli: The world is not a safe space. You have
to be able to be okay with yourself enough
to know that you aren't right all the time.
And that other people have other opinions
from you and, oh my god, they disagree.
Lucas: People who aren’t familiar with safe
spaces I don’t think realize that it's not
a place where everybody gets what they want.
It's where everyone acknowledges what other people need.
Michael Dixon: Maybe just act like human beings
towards one another,
and that's what I would consider a safe space.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION